Project Title: The Pocket Project (The PP)
Probably due June 1st

After careful consideration and reflecting upon my interests and personal skillset, I have determined that I would like to pursue a Passion Project involving hardware, as this area presents an opportunity for me to expand my knowledge and gain valuable hands-on experience working with parts and components I would normally not have an opportunity to work with.

The project is not an easy one to complete, it entails building a computer from scratch and running Goss (the social media app I’m developing with a friend) on it because it’s awesome.

The parts are detailed in the partsList google sheets document linked: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11jujtMIozmsE7F5iAM1Ylm8r_dT83HxckRR0MShYjug/edit?usp=sharing

If possible purchasing the following would also be nice: https://www.walmart.ca/en/ip/Marvel-Avengers-Thor-s-Hammer-44-Piece-Tool-Set-Mjolnir-Toolbox-All-In-One-Kit/PRD5HV169YPHYG6

The short-term goals of the Pocket Project are complete the assembly of the low-cost computer within the specified time frame below, and ensure that all components are installed correctly and functioning as intended. Then install the operating system and necessary drivers, as well as any essential software applications, to ensure the computer is ready for use upon completion of the project.

The long-term goals of the Pocket Project will entail reducing the digital divide by making computers more accessible and affordable to individuals and communities with limited resources, ultimately promoting digital inclusion and equality. 

The Pocket Project supports the development of digital literacy skills in users who may not have had access to a computer before, empowering them to navigate the digital world with confidence and competence.

As much as it pains me to say it, I will document the entire process, from component selection to assembly and testing, to serve as a reference for future low-cost computer building projects or to build on these designs and develop future prototypes. 


After ordering all of the components on Wednesday May 10th, 2023, I expect to start building on Wednesday, May 17th. A major building period would be on Sunday, May 21st, 2023, when I expect to devote 16 hours to the project and finish building the computer. The rest of the in-class time will be devoted to fixing final errors and getting a little bit of publicity for the computer design. 


In conclusion, this project proves to be a challenging one with lots of time, effort and crying built into it. Building a computer would be an effective use of class time, school resources and valuable summative period brainpower. If the proposal needs to be downsized to just an ALU (Arithmetic logic unit), that can be arranged. 
